title: '2015~2017 NCKU UAV Team, UAV Design and Flight Test'
author: Wen-Yu Chien
categories:
  - NCUK UAV
tags:
  - UAV
  - Drone
  - Video
date: 2020-05-04 23:20:50
---
I was the NCKU Unmanned Aerial Vehicle team leader from 2015 to 2017. During the 2 years, I was in charge of the drone design and team management.

The first UAV, Yee (翼), was designed in 2016 for Taiwan UAV Competition. The UAV is a traditional inverse-T configuration with 2.6 m wingspan and an O.S. 61FX engine. The aircraft is 7 kg and can carry up to 5 kg payload. The materials we used are mainly balsa wood, fiber glass and some carbon fiber for critical structures.
<script src="/js/youtube-autoresizer.js"></script>
<iframe width="640" height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/D05AmAQhahY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<!--more-->

The second UAV, Storm Chaser (暴風艦), was designed in 2017 for Taiwan UAV Competition as well. This UAV was designed by me and another leader of the team. He designed the aerodynamics parameters and I designed the cad in CATIA and manufacture process. 
The UAV is a canard configuration with 2.7 m wingspan and also equipped with an O.S. 61FX engine. This aircraft is 11 kg with theoretical up to 15 maximum takeoff weight. After several flight tests, we found the CG required 3 kg counter weight to reach out for its relatively short fuselage and less swipe angle. Also, the large wing surface causes the extra drag to accelerate. This characteristics shows in the video below. The stability and flight performance is close to our calculation.

<script src="/js/youtube-autoresizer.js"></script>
<iframe width="640" height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/rLjaZV_vNvc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>